### 1.2 Using chomp to clean inputs

When working with Terraform, you may have realized that you have the option of working with a lot of text, whether it be a template file that you’re generating or looking to create some more dynamic configuration within your infrastructure projects.

The chomp function is an essential call-out as it can help you remove characters at the end of a string value and provide more reliable information as you use values within your infrastructure as code.

#### Problem
You’re working with unsanitized input data from an outside source, like a CSV file or JSON from an API endpoint, and you would like to remove unnecessary whitespace from the string to ensure it works with all your downstream needs.

#### Solution
Using an output variable, you can clean up an unsanitized variable using the chomp function. Terraform’s output variable functionality will show a sanitized output of the initial value.

```bash
# define an input variable that contains trailing line breaks
variable "unsanitized_location_1" {
 type        = string
 description = "(unsanitized) Location of Device"
 default     = "Rack 3,\nPosition 12\n\n"
}
# use an output value to display the result of using "chomp" on the "unsanitized_location_1" input variable
output "sanitized_location_1" {
 description = "(sanitized) Location of Device"
 value       = chomp(var.unsanitized_location_1)
}
```

## Steps

This example is straightforward because once you have the solution code above, we can quickly get a feedback loop going to ensure the configuration is as expected.

```bash
terraform plan
Changes to Outputs:
  + sanitized_location_1 = <<-EOT
        Rack 3,
        Position 12
    EOT
```

You can apply this plan to save these new output values to the Terraform state, without changing any real infrastructure.

Since we’re not modifying any infrastructure or using cloud services, we don’t have to terraform apply. Still, we recommend that you do so during these exercises to understand how terraform works in a regular workflow.

By running terraform apply we get the following:

```bash
terraform apply
Changes to Outputs:
  + sanitized_location_1 = <<-EOT
        Rack 3,
        Position 12
    EOT

You can apply this plan to save these new output values to the Terraform state, without changing any real infrastructure.

Do you want to perform these actions?
  Terraform will perform the actions described above.
  Only 'yes' will be accepted to approve.
  Enter a value: yes
Apply complete! Resources: 0 added, 0 changed, 0 destroyed.
Outputs:
sanitized_location_1 = <<EOT
Rack 3,
Position 12
EOT
```

### Clean Up

We did not spin up any infrastructure in this example, but if you’d like to clean up your Terraform state file, you can run terraform destroy to get rid of your outputs.

$ terraform destroy 
Changes to Outputs:
  - sanitized_location_1 = <<-EOT
        Rack 3,
        Position 12
    EOT -> null
You can apply this plan to save these new output values to the Terraform state, without changing any real infrastructure.
Do you really want to destroy all resources?
  Terraform will destroy all your managed infrastructure, as shown above.
  There is no undo. Only 'yes' will be accepted to confirm.
  Enter a value: yes
Destroy complete! Resources: 0 destroyed.

## Discussion

This example was relatively straightforward and showed how you can get started with Terraform and use its built-in functions as it correlates to strings. Now that you’ve been introduced to this functionality, you aren’t limited to using predefined variables and can use any form of external inputs and clean them with the chomp function.


