## Discussion

In this example, we were able to build upon the VPC example we set up in the previous recipe and again use Terraform’s public module registry to create an EKS cluster that either we or our teams could use and extend.

One important note about this cluster is that we shouldn’t be using Terraform for configuration management in addition to instantiating the cluster. It makes sense to iterate and to keep the EKS authentication and instantiation separate from the configuration, otherwise, we can run into issues during maintenance or upgrades.

## Problem

Ensuring that your Terraform configuration is linted properly and running as expected can be difficult as you maintain your code for long periods of time. Operating with larger teams and scales can make this even more unwieldy.

## Solution

By using GitHub actions and a dash of YAML configuration, we can create a workflow that allows you to ensure your code is linted properly and ensure that Terraform is able to execute your configuration as you expect.

To start this process, you will need to have a GitHub account and have GitHub Actions enabled on the repository you’ll be pushing your code to. You will need an existing Terraform configuration to test this recipe. You can use the code from the previous examples we’ve worked through if you’d like.

Once you have chosen your Terraform configuration repository, you need to create a `.github` folder at the root of your repository. We’ll need to create a `workflows` folder inside of the `.github` folder to contain our workflows.

First, create a superlinter.yml file in the `workflows` folder as follows.

```yaml
name: "Code Quality: Super-Linter"
on:
  pull_request:
jobs:
  superlinter:
    name: Super-Linter
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v3
        with:
          fetch-depth: 1
      - name: Lint Code
        uses: docker://github/super-linter:v4
        env:
          VALIDATE_ALL_CODEBASE: true
          DEFAULT_BRANCH: "main"
          DISABLE_ERRORS: false
          VALIDATE_BASH: true
          VALIDATE_JSON: true
          VALIDATE_MD: true
          VALIDATE_TERRAFORM: true
          VALIDATE_YAML: true
```

This GitHub Action workflow will ensure that your Terraform, Bash, JSON, Markdown, and YAML files have all been formatted correctly. This code will run during pull requests, but not at any other time an action is taken on your repository. This will help minimize or even eliminate formatting issues with your configuration and documentation.

Next up, we’ll add a terraform.yml file in the workflows directory we created with the following configuration.

```yaml
---
name: "Code Quality: Terraform"
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
  pull_request:
jobs:
  terraform:
    name: Terraform
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest
    steps:
      - name: Checkout Repository
        uses: actions/checkout@v2
        with:
          fetch-depth: 1
      - name: Setup Terraform
        uses: hashicorp/setup-terraform@v1
      
      - name: Run `terraform fmt`
        id: fmt
        run: terraform fmt -diff -check -no-color -recursive
      - name: Run `terraform init`
        id: init
        run: terraform init
      - name: Run `terraform validate`
        id: validate
        if: github.event_name == 'pull_request'
        run: terraform validate -no-color 
```

This code example will run during pushes to the main branch, and during pull requests to ensure that the Terraform configuration is formatted correctly and that it has been instantiated correctly in terms of dependencies and references.

Adding these two straightforward actions can reduce a lot of the “administrivia” faced when managing a GitHub project for Terraform and we hope this helps you manage yours, even if it’s just you working with it.

These two actions add a lot of value by providing oversight on your Terraform configuration without having to manually check these files on a regular basis. This allows for teams to scale code reviews without additional hiring and more quickly get feedback loops as they test new configurations within their infrastructure.
