# 2.5 Keeping Terraform updated with Dependabot

## Problem

When it comes to Terraform and really any code, we always hear about how important it is to keep our dependencies updated. But keeping code, configuration, and dependencies updated is no easy feat, is it? Thankfully, we can use another GitHub feature called Dependabot to let us know when new dependencies are available, and it will even open up pull requests to alert us to those changes.

## Solution

You will need an existing Terraform configuration repository on GitHub to try these changes, and you will also need to create a `.github` folder at the root of your repository to store these changes.

Let’s create a `dependabot.yml` file within our `.github` folder with the following details.

```yaml
version: 2
updates:
  # Maintain dependencies for GitHub Actions
  - package-ecosystem: "terraform"
    directory: "/"
    schedule:
      interval: "daily"
```

Once we commit this and push up the changes, we will now start getting daily updates for our Terraform repository about what modules and providers we need to update. Dependabot will open up pull requests automatically, which we can then decide to merge directly, or make the changes on our own.

## Discussion

Dependabot has a lot of options that you can set to make management of your Terraform or many other languages and dependencies much more straightforward. Using GitHub Actions to keep your dependencies up to date is an incredibly helpful feature that helps you stay focused on your infrastructure and less-so on your dependency management.